docs/source/usage/configure_keyboard_Mouse_control.md, before:

Configure keyboard/Mouse control
==========================

IR-SIM support reading the keyboard and mouse input to control the robot manually.  

## Keyboard Control Configuration Parameters

In the keyboard control mode, the behavior of the robot is controlled by the user and the settings in the YAML file will be ignored. Please make sure the dependencies are installed before running the simulation with keyboard. The dependencies can be installed using the following command:

```bash
pip install ir-sim[keyboard]
```

To start with the keyboard control, you can simply to specify the `control_mode` parameter in the `world` section as `keyboard`. The example of the keyboard control is shown below:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} Python Script

```python
import irsim

env = irsim.make()

for i in range(1000):

    env.step()
    env.render(0.05)

    if env.done():
        break

env.end()
```

:::

:::{tab-item} YAML Configuration

```yaml
world:
  height: 50  
  width: 50   
  control_mode: 'keyboard'  
  obstacle_map: 'cave.png'
  mdownsample: 2

robot:
  - kinematics: {name: 'acker'} 
    shape: {name: 'rectangle', length: 4.6, width: 1.6, wheelbase: 3}
    state: [5, 5, 0, 0]
    goal: [40, 40, 0]
    vel_max: [4, 1]
    plot:
      show_trail: True
      traj_color: 'g'
      show_trajectory: True
      show_goal: False

    sensors: 
      - type: 'lidar2d'
        range_min: 0
        range_max: 20
        angle_range: 3.14
        number: 100
        alpha: 0.4
```

:::

:::{tab-item} Demonstration

```{image} gif/keyboard.gif
:alt: Select Parameters
:width: 400px
:align: center
```
:::
::::

## Keyboard Control Key Mapping

| Key      | Function                        |
|----------|---------------------------------|
| `w`      | Forward                         |
| `s`      | Back Forward                    |
| `a`      | Turn Left                       |
| `d`      | Turn Right                      |
| `q`      | Decrease Linear Velocity        |
| `e`      | Increase Linear Velocity        |
| `z`      | Decrease Angular Velocity       |
| `c`      | Increase Angular Velocity       |
| `alt+num`| Change Current Control Robot ID |
| `r`      | Reset the Environment           |
| `space`  | Toggle Pause/Resume Environment |

### Environment Status Control

The space key provides toggle functionality for controlling the simulation state:

- **First press**: Pauses the environment (status changes to "Pause")
- **Second press**: Resumes the environment (status changes to "Running")
- **Subsequent presses**: Continue toggling between pause and resume states

You can access the current environment status through the `env.status` attribute:

```python
import irsim

env = irsim.make()

for i in range(1000):
    env.step()
    env.render(0.05)
    
    # Check current status
    print(f"Environment status: {env.status}")
    
    if env.done():
        break

env.end()
```

## Mouse Control

IR-SIM supports the mouse control to zoom in and out the environment and track the mouse position. The mouse control is enabled by default. For example, you can use mouse left click to set the goal of the robot.

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} Python Script

```python
import irsim

env = irsim.make()

for i in range(10000):
    env.step()
    env.render(0.05, show_goal=False)
    
    if env.mouse_left_pos is not None:
        env.robot.set_goal(env.mouse_left_pos)

    if env.done():
        break

env.end()
```

:::

:::{tab-item} YAML Configuration

```yaml
world:
  height: 50 
  width: 50  
  step_time: 0.1 
  sample_time: 0.1 
  offset: [0, 0] 
  collision_mode: 'stop' 
  control_mode: 'auto' 
  plot:
    saved_figure:
      bbox_inches: null

robot:
  - kinematics: {name: 'diff'} 
    shape: {name: 'circle', radius: 1}
    state: [5, 5, 0]
    vel_max: [4, 1]
    behavior: {name: 'dash'} 
    plot:
      show_trajectory: True
      traj_color: 'g'
      show_goals: True

    sensors: 
      - type: 'lidar2d'
        range_min: 0
        range_max: 20
        angle_range: 3.14
        number: 100
        noise: False
        std: 1   
        angle_std: 0.2
        offset: [0, 0, 0]
        alpha: 0.4


obstacle:
  - number: 10
    distribution: {name: 'manual'}
    shape:
      - {name: 'polygon', random_shape: true, center_range: [5, 10, 40, 30], avg_radius_range: [0.5, 2]} 
```

:::

:::{tab-item} Demonstration

```{image} gif/mouse.gif
:alt: Select Parameters
:width: 400px
:align: center
```
:::
::::

### Mouse Control Key Mapping

| Mouse Action | Function |
|--------------|----------|
| Mouse Movement | Track mouse position and update display coordinates |
| Middle Click | Reset zoom to default view |
| Scroll Up | Zoom in (centered on mouse position) |
| Scroll Down | Zoom out (centered on mouse position) |

### Mouse Position Attributes

| Attribute | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| `mouse_left_pos` | `tuple` | Position of left click (x, y) |
| `mouse_right_pos` | `tuple` | Position of right click (x, y) |
| `mouse_pos` | `tuple` | Current mouse position (x, y) |

Commit message:

Feat: add matplotlib backend keyboard control as default (#116)
* feat: add mpl keyboard default backend

* feat: add gui in yaml, remove plot in yaml

* test: fix test and improve test cov

* doc: add mpl keyboard and gui

* test: improve test cov

docs/source/usage/configure_keyboard_Mouse_control.md, after:

Configure keyboard/Mouse control
==========================

IR-SIM supports reading the keyboard and mouse input to control the robot manually.  

## Keyboard Control Configuration Parameters

In the keyboard control mode, the behavior of the robot is controlled by the user and the settings in the YAML file will be ignored. By default IR-SIM uses Matplotlib figure key events (no extra dependency). If you prefer a global keyboard hook, you can use the optional `pynput` backend:

```bash
pip install pynput
```

To start with the keyboard control, you can simply to specify the `control_mode` parameter in the `world` section as `keyboard`. The example of the keyboard control is shown below:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} Python Script

```python
import irsim

env = irsim.make()

for i in range(1000):

    env.step()
    env.render(0.05)

    if env.done():
        break

env.end()
```

:::

:::{tab-item} YAML Configuration

```yaml
world:
  height: 50  
  width: 50   
  control_mode: 'keyboard'  
  obstacle_map: 'cave.png'
  mdownsample: 2

robot:
  - kinematics: {name: 'acker'} 
    shape: {name: 'rectangle', length: 4.6, width: 1.6, wheelbase: 3}
    state: [5, 5, 0, 0]
    goal: [40, 40, 0]
    vel_max: [4, 1]
    plot:
      show_trail: True
      traj_color: 'g'
      show_trajectory: True
      show_goal: False

    sensors: 
      - type: 'lidar2d'
        range_min: 0
        range_max: 20
        angle_range: 3.14
        number: 100
        alpha: 0.4
```

:::

:::{tab-item} Demonstration

```{image} gif/keyboard.gif
:alt: Select Parameters
:width: 400px
:align: center
```
:::
::::

## Keyboard Control Key Mapping

| Key      | Function                        |
|----------|---------------------------------|
| `w`      | Forward                         |
| `s`      | Backward                        |
| `a`      | Turn Left                       |
| `d`      | Turn Right                      |
| `q`      | Decrease Linear Velocity        |
| `e`      | Increase Linear Velocity        |
| `z`      | Decrease Angular Velocity       |
| `c`      | Increase Angular Velocity       |
| `alt+num`| Change Current Control Robot ID |
| `r`      | Reset the Environment           |
| `space`  | Toggle Pause/Resume Environment |

### Environment Status Control

The space key toggles between "Pause" and "Running" based on the current state. If the environment hasn't entered Running yet, the first press may set it to "Running".

You can access the current environment status through the `env.status` attribute:

```python
import irsim

env = irsim.make()

for i in range(1000):
    env.step()
    env.render(0.05)
    
    # Check current status
    print(f"Environment status: {env.status}")
    
    if env.done():
        break

env.end()
```

### Select Keyboard Backend (Matplotlib vs pynput)

- Default backend: `mpl` (Matplotlib figure key events). No extra package required.
- Optional backend: `pynput` (global keyboard hook). Requires `pynput` to be installed. If `pynput` is unavailable, IR-SIM automatically falls back to `mpl`.

Add a `keyboard` section at the root of the YAML to configure the backend and key parameters:

```yaml
world:
  control_mode: 'keyboard'

gui:
  keyboard:
    backend: 'mpl'         # 'mpl' (default) or 'pynput'
    vel_max: [3.0, 3.0]    # [linear, angular] speed limits for keyboard control
    key_id: 0              # initial robot control id
    # key_lv_max, key_ang_max, key_lv, key_ang are also supported
```

## Mouse Control

IR-SIM supports the mouse control to zoom in and out the environment and track the mouse position. The mouse control is enabled by default. For example, you can use mouse left click to set the goal of the robot.

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} Python Script

```python
import irsim

env = irsim.make()

for i in range(10000):
    env.step()
    env.render(0.05, show_goal=False)
    
    if env.mouse_left_pos is not None:
        env.robot.set_goal(env.mouse_left_pos)

    if env.done():
        break

env.end()
```

:::

:::{tab-item} YAML Configuration

```yaml
world:
  height: 50 
  width: 50  
  step_time: 0.1 
  sample_time: 0.1 
  offset: [0, 0] 
  collision_mode: 'stop' 
  control_mode: 'auto' 
  plot:
    saved_figure:
      bbox_inches: null

robot:
  - kinematics: {name: 'diff'} 
    shape: {name: 'circle', radius: 1}
    state: [5, 5, 0]
    vel_max: [4, 1]
    behavior: {name: 'dash'} 
    plot:
      show_trajectory: True
      traj_color: 'g'
      show_goals: True

    sensors: 
      - type: 'lidar2d'
        range_min: 0
        range_max: 20
        angle_range: 3.14
        number: 100
        noise: False
        std: 1   
        angle_std: 0.2
        offset: [0, 0, 0]
        alpha: 0.4


obstacle:
  - number: 10
    distribution: {name: 'manual'}
    shape:
      - {name: 'polygon', random_shape: true, center_range: [5, 10, 40, 30], avg_radius_range: [0.5, 2]} 
```

:::

:::{tab-item} Demonstration

```{image} gif/mouse.gif
:alt: Select Parameters
:width: 400px
:align: center
```
:::
::::

### Mouse Control Key Mapping

| Mouse Action | Function |
|--------------|----------|
| Mouse Movement | Track mouse position and update display coordinates |
| Middle Click | Reset zoom to default view |
| Scroll Up | Zoom in (centered on mouse position) |
| Scroll Down | Zoom out (centered on mouse position) |

### Mouse Position Attributes

| Attribute | Type | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| `mouse_left_pos` | `tuple` | Position of left click (x, y) |
| `mouse_right_pos` | `tuple` | Position of right click (x, y) |
| `mouse_pos` | `tuple` | Current mouse position (x, y) |
